This page is not part of our building reports. When reading the example
report, please consider the following and see how this may apply to your
subject property.

- Please note that commentary will vary depending on which inspector
you use. However, the scope of the assessment will stay primarily the
same.

- Reports are tailored to each individual property. Different sections
will be added or removed depending on the property's requirements.
For example, a section for retaining walls will not be included on
property where retaining is not present.

- Weare constantly updating and improving our reports, so our
example reports sometimes become outdated. For this reason,
recently commissioned reports may differ slightly from the example
report.
WM Inspected Building Report
MM Residential

Example address

Prepared for Others present during inspection
Client name Agent
Date Weather
25/09/2024 ;
Fine

Property Inspected by Adam Brownie 027 914 9087
Adam@inspectedresidential.co.nz Qualified builder and
Licensed Building Practitioner

National Certificate in Carpentry

NZ Certificate in Real Estate

This inspection was carried out in accordance with
NZS4306:2005
it Limitations of this Report The Report is subject to our Terms of Service included
with your quote and the limitations stated within them. We refer to you to Clause 28
(Limited Inspections) and Clause 29 (Building Inspection Report Exclusions).

2. Scope of this Report This Report is is based off a overall visual and non-invasive
assessment, as at the date of inspection, of ten (10) areas of the building and
surrounds, which is the subject of the Contractor’s inspection:

. Exterior roof; and
. Foundation and subfloor; and
. Accessory units and buildings; and
. Site improvements; and
. Roof space/ceiling cavity; and
. Exterior wall cladding and joinery; and
. General interior; and
. Plumbing system; and
. Electrical system; and
. Landscaping and hardscaping; and
. Pests and potential hazards
a. Exclusions Wewill not carry out any destructive of intrusive testing, or move any

furniture or appliances. No disassembly of equipment, opening of walls, moving of
furniture, appliances or stored items, or excavation will be performed. All components
and conditions which by the nature of theirlocation are concealed, camoflaged.or difficult
to inspect (e.g. plumbing, drainage, heating, framing, ventilation, insulation or wiring) are
excluded from our inspection and the Report.

4. Non-Comprehensive and Non-Exhaustive The Report is not an
all-encompassing report detailing every»minor defect or minor outstanding
maintenance issues. The inspection and the Report are not intended to be technically
comprehensive, orto imply that.every component was inspected, or that every possible
defect was discovered. The Report does not comment on the condition of a particular
building element but rather rates the overal concern level.

of General Reliance The Report is intended only as a general guide to help you to
evaluate the overall condition of the building. We refer you to Clause 22 (General
Reliance) of our Terms of Service.

6. Copyright ... This Report and its contents are the copyright of Inspected Residential
Limited. We retain copyright in any written designs, drawings, specifications, processes,
reports and any other documents created as part of, or for the purpose of performing, the
Report. The Report, in whole or part of, may not be copied, reproduced or translated in
any medium by you without our express permission. It shall not be supplied by you to any
third parties other than to your professional advisers or banking organisation.

fe Re-Addressing Reports For the avoidance of doubt, we may re-address the Report
at your request to a third party, subject to any fee in force as at the date of the request.

We shall inform you if the date of the Report does not enable us to re-address the Report
and requires a new report to be commissioned. This is at our sole discretion.

VW Inspected
KM Residential
O71
O 2 EXTERIOR

03 STRUCTURE
O04 INTERIOR

O 5 PLUMBING
Ys) ae

O 7] HEATING/COOLING/VENTILATION

WM Inspected
M Residential
CONDITION KEY

Good
Generally good or
Typical for its age
Okay

Average

Poor

In good working order or condition for its age, functionality is better than expected.

In a condition realistically expected of the age and type, functioning as intended.

In a condition that shows some deterioration and may require some remediation or
maintenance. Functionality and condition have declined somewhat, but are still okay.

Condition in which may no longer function as intended, deterioration to the point that
remediation is required.

Completely deteriorated and is no longer functioning as intended: Replacement is likely
recommended.

GENERAL BUILDING ELEMENTS GLOSSARY

Roofing

Cladding

Flooring

Joinery

Appliances &
Mechanical

Electrical

Plumbing

Bargeboard - Boards on a gable end.

Facia - Linear metal or timber facings that run along the bottom of a roof line.

Hips & Valleys - Internal or external elements of a roof creating either a valley or a ridge.
Ceiling Cavity - Space between the ceiling;and the cladded roof.

Cavity System - The gap between two surfaces e.g. cladding to frame cavity.
Cladding - Material fixed to the exterior of a dwelling:

Direct Fixed - Fixed directly with no cavity.

Monolithic - Smooth rendered plaster finish over a selected substrate.
Vermin Strip - Strip used to allow airflow but stop rodents accessing.

Soffits - Overhanging horizontal lining under the overhanging roof.

Eaves - Pitched section of roof overhang.

Concrete Slab.-.Solid concrete foundation on which something is built.

Ring Foundation - A.narrow concrete perimeter around the outside of a dwelling.
Piles - Vertical structural elements being the base of the foundation.

Joists’- Runs on or between bearers to create a frame for the floor.

Bearers - Thick horizontal elements running over piles to create load support.

Joinery - Windows, doors, cabinetry.

Jam/frame - The frame around a door.

Reveal - Frame around a window.

Sill - Base of a window frame.

Hardware - Door handles, latches, mechanical elements.

Head Flashing - Above exterior windows and doors to prevent water ingress.
Trim - A material fixed to smooth corners or cover fixings.

General - Cooktops, ovens, extraction, etc.
Sanitary - Dishwasher, toilets, sinks, etc.

Switchboard or Distribution Board - A board connecting electrical circuits.

Water Toby - A valve by the road to switch the water mains to the property on or off.
Waste - Pipes or catchments that take wastewater away e.g. sinks, showers, etc.
Gully Trap - A ground basin that receives piped wastewater from inside the dwelling.
Stormwater System - System that receives excess water from the roof and drainage
system in the property.

M™ Inspected
M Residential
SUMMARY

Please read this report in its entirety. This summary is for information purposes and is not a substitute for the
information provided in the body of this report. This summary will include aspects we consider most relevant.
The house is in a combination of generally good and average condition through different elements» Areas of
remediation and maintenance are commented on in this report.

Roof

There is general denting noted to the decromastic tiles, the coating has degraded throughout, there are
popped nail fixings, and there is some general spot rust to the southern roof element. Remediation is
possible, however, a full roof replacement is likely a more cost effective option. There is currently no
substantial weather tightness risk with the roof cladding, however, the cladding is aged and. general
remediation on it would be a reasonable and expensive task to carry out properly. It is recommended the cost
of a full re-roof be taken into consideration when purchasing this home. The gutter to.the north eastern
element has rusted right through to the soffit and needs replacement. The gutters should be cleared out of
debris and comprehensively checked over by a suitably qualified specialist. All rusted sections should be
replaced. Flashings around the chimney should be sealed and adjusted.to prevent water pooling on them.
Concrete capping in the top of the chimney should be replaced as it has cracking through it.

Exterior

Water damaged soffit sheets should be replaced once the gutter leaks have been fixed. The weatherboards
on the garage gable end need replacing. The rest of the weatherboards.are generally fine but are in need of
a repaint or stain to prevent them aging. Some minor re-pointing needed to any cracking to the mortar on the
brick cladding. Check rubber seals on joinery and replace any that have perished or shrunk.

Structure

Several wet and elevated moisture readings taken. Please refer to. moisture section of this report for
comments.

Interior

Some painting and decorating needed to improve the interior. Some rotting noted to two of the garage door
reveals. These sections are best replaced. The interior doors.are in general need of attention and adjusting
to improve them.

Plumbing

Monitor hot water cylinder as it is very dated and may be near the end of its life expectancy. It is
recommended that an extraction fan be installed to the bathroom. Refer to moisture section of this report
regarding shower stall leak.

Electrical

No. general concerns found.

HVAC
No general concerns found.

EQC scope comments

The EQC scope of works supplied appears to have been partially completed. Works outstanding are that the
northern patio has not been epoxy repaired and painted and re-pointing to the brick masonry has not been
carried. out.

ROOF OVERVIEW

LIMITATION(S) in this section

To comply with health and safety at work regulations, the assessment of the roof and its elements is limited to
what can be visually assessed from a 3.8m ladder. Any areas not reasonably accessible or unable to be
sighted from a ladder are excluded from this report.
Condition
In generally poor to average condition.

ye N

Condition
In okay condition for its age.

Comments

Due to their design, old-style chimney flashings like this one are particularly prone to weather tightness
issues. Their condition should be periodically inspected as part of general home maintenance to prevent
leaks, particularly during heavy rainfall. Flashings should be sealed and adjusted,to prevent water pooling
on them. Concrete capping in the top of the chimney should be replaced.

General cracking to concrete capping. This
should be replaced.

Water pooling on chimney flashing.

ROOF(s

Type
Sloped
Material(s)

Decromastic tiles - The decromastic coating on tiles produced up until approximately the mid-1980’s has the
potential to contain asbestos. This is sometimes found in the adhesives used on the product. No testing for
the presence of asbestos was carried out during this inspection.

Condition
In generally poor to average condition.
Comments

There is general denting noted to the decromastic tiles, the coating has degraded throughout, there are
popped nail fixings, and there is some general spot rust to the southern roof element. Remediation is
possible, however, a full roof replacement is likely a more cost effective option. There is currently no
substantial weather tightness risk with the roof cladding, however, the cladding is aged and general
remediation on it would be a reasonable and expensive task to carry out properly. It is recommended the cost
of a full re-roof be taken into consideration when purchasing this home.

Some general denting to some
decromastic tiles through this
face.

Some general denting to
decromastic tiles through here.

Example - Some typical rusting
noted to the roof cladding on the
southern element.

Example - Typical deterioration to
decromastic coating throughout.

Some dented tiles through this
face.

FLASHINGS

Type
Hips & Ridges, Valley, Penetration(s)

Material(s)
Metal
Condition
In generally average condition.

Comments
Comments as per roof comments above.

General degrading to valley .
flashing coating.

ERS A OWN F

Material(s)
Built in gutter system, Metal gutters, Plastic/PVC downpipes

Condition
In a variety of conditions

Comments

Please note, these internal type edge gutters can pose somewhat of a moisture risk due to them being
constructed over top of the soffits, rather than adjacent to them. This is an acceptable construction method
and very typical of the era of the home, but extra care and proper maintenance is required to prevent the
gutters leaking and causing damage to the soffit below. Ensure gutters are periodically inspected for their
condition, debris is kept clear and joins are adequately sealed. The gutter to the north eastern element has
rusted right through to the soffit and needs replacement. The gutters should be cleared out of debris and
comprehensively checked over by a suitably qualified specialist. All rusted sections should be replaced.
Example - Light rust in places to

the inside of some gutters.

North eastern gutter has rusted
right through to the soffit.

Down pipe is detached and
cracked. Replace this.

EXTERIOR OVERVIEW

LIMITATION(S) in this section
The inspection of the exterior foundation walls was limited due to the exterior finished ground levels therefore
an assessment of what can be seen above ground was carried out.
Condition
In generally okay condition for its age.

Material
Fibre cement soffit, Metal facia

Condition
In generally okay condition for its age.

Comments

Please note, due to the era this home was constructed, it is possible that this soffit contains asbestos. But
this was not tested or confirmed during this inspection. Facia fixed well to structure. Facia flashed well.
Water damaged soffit sheets should be replaced once gutter leaks have been fitted.

—a= 2
Example - The soffit has popped General water damage to soffit | Water damage under rusted
out of the facia in places. under rusted gutter. gutter.

Water damage to soffit here.
EXTERIOR FOUNDATION (WALLS)

Type
Concrete slab

Condition
In good condition for its age.

Comments
No concerns identified.

EXTERIOR DWELLING (WALLS)

Type

Brick masonry, Direct fixed horizontal timber weatherboards.
Condition

In generally okay and good condition for its age.

Comments

Some cracking in mortar noted but nothing unexpected or concerning. Grind out and re-point mortar where
needed as general and ongoing maintenance of a masonry cladding. The weatherboards on the garage
gable end need replacing. The rest are generally fine but are in need of a repaint or stain to prevent them
aging.
These weatherboards on the
gable end are generally aged
and need replacing.

Cracking to mortar.

mortar in places where bricks weatherboards. Theyvare still
meet the soffits. okay but need painting or
staining.

Some hairline cracking to cove Aging to these weatherboards.

under this ranch slider. They are still fine. Repaint or
stain these.

Cracking to mortar.

EXTERIOR JOINERY (VISUAL ASSESSMENT)

Material
Aluminium, Timber

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Comments

Exterior joinery comments are based on a visual assessment only. Testing of the joinery function is found in
the interior section of this report. Where joinery meets the cladding, gap filling could be carried outs This»will
improve the exterior joinery cosmetically and for weather tightness. Rubber seals are coming out and have
perished slightly in places. Where seals have pulled out or perished, replace them with new seals. Paint
restorer could be used on joinery frames where there is sun fade this will improve then cosmetically.

\\
AX
Example - Perishing/shrinking to
rubber seals on some windows.

Ske “3
— {

Example - Where gap
filling/sealing should be carried
out around joinery where it meets
the cladding.
~ 2S SSE

¥

EXTERIOR SERVICES

GULLY TRAP(S)

Material
Plastic/PVC

Condition
In generally good.condition.

Comments
Traps are configured properly and do not have down pipes directing storm water into them. Grate installed
on traps to prevent debris getting into the grey water system. The rim of the trap needs to be at least 25mm

above a paved surface, and 100mm above an unpaved surface.
\

Pull garden bed away from this trap.

EXTERIOR SERVICES

Type
Tap(s)

Comments
Taps are operating fine.

HARDSCAPING, DECKS, BALCONIES, VERANDAS, PATIOS

Type and material
Patio, Pathways

Comments
Expansion gaps cut to help prevent cracking to hardscaping. Some cracks noted but nothing concerning.

_ Some superficial cracks to this
patio.

DRIVEWAY

Material
Concrete

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Comments
Normal aging. Proper expansion gaps have been cut to allow for movement and prevent cracking. No
general concerns found.
<j3 Bes S: i * a ie
Typical non concerning crack to expansion cut end.

FENCING

Material
Timber

Condition
In generally average condition.

Comments

Some general deterioration to the fencing, requiring some repairs and maintenance. Some rot at the base of
fences due to. timber being at ground level. Re-paint or stain as ongoing maintenance to prolong fences
lifespan.
J i
Gate is aged and flimsy.

Gate is working fine.

STRUCTURE OVERVIEW

LIMITATION(S) in this section

This inspection report is based on a visual assessment of accessible areas of the dwelling at the time of the
inspection. While our thorough examination aims to identify visible signs of pests, it is important to note that
some pests may remain hidden or undetectable during the inspection. Pests, such as birds, rodents, and
borer, can,often inhabit concealed spaces. This report serves as a snapshot of the property's condition at the
time of the inspection and should be considered in conjunction with other specialist evaluations to obtain a
complete understanding of.the property's pest status. This inspection of the foundations is limited due to
exterior finished ground levels and floor coverings. Therefore only an assessment of what can be seen
externally was carried out.

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

FLOOR LEVELS
Foundation type
Concrete slab

Inside MBIE guidelines?

Floor levels of the main dwelling were checked randomly throughout and appear to be inside MBIE
guidelines. The slope of the floor between any two points checked <2m apart is <0.5 (1 in 200), and the
variation over the floor plan is <50mm. This check was done using a Technidea Zip Pro-2000. Our conclusion
takes into consideration differences in floor covering thicknesses and steps downs. Please note that this is
not a floor-level survey.

Comments

There were some reasonable deviations through the living area but these appear to still appear to sit just
within MBIE guidelines.

pee PERS 5c — Z
Datum. Approx. 110mm step down to
garage slab.
Test type

Non-invasive readings were taken using a T660 non-invasive moisture meter readings were taken internally
at key locations most prone to moisture ingress. Generally speaking, moisture content readings between 0
and 50 are considered dry, 50 to 80 is considered damp; and 80+ is considered wet. However, readings will
always show an element of moisture because timber framing will always retain some level of moisture even
after it has been dried. Additionally, moisture content readings can get up to 3% higher than average during
periods of high humidity and cooler air temperatures.

Base reading on internal frames deemed to be dry
30

Comments

Slightly damp_readings taken in the laundry, behind the toilet and beside the bath. These areas likely need
better ventilation, as it is typical to see slightly elevated readings in these places due to them being wet areas
that have not been ventilated well. Run heating in these rooms and re-check levels to ensure they reduce.
Wet readings and obvious moisture damage around the front of the shower stall. This should be invasively
investigated. Remove the skirting and plasterboard here to expose and check the framing for rot. If there is
no rotting, run heating in here to dry the frames, re-line the plasterboard and re-seal the shower stall. Please
consulta suitably qualified building practitioner for this.
A touch damp behind laundry.
(gy |
A touch damp behind separate
toilet.

Slightly damp beside bath. Wet around shower stall.

f,

Slightly damp behind shower
stall.

i wy wh
my | Ny SAK

CEILING CAVITY

CEILING CAVITY STRUCTURE

Framing type
Timber, Trusses

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Pests
As on-going maintenance, all homes should be periodically checked for pests as they can cause damage to
the construction material, plumbing, and electrical. Some signs of rodents noted.

Comments
Fixed well into place. No sagging identified. No signs of rot.

Roof underlay/sheathing
Roofing paper, Wire mesh

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Comments
No general concerns found.
CEILING CAVITY INSULATION

Type
Fibre glass

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Comments

Insulation laid throughout except above the garage. Not slumped or compressed. No obvious water damage
observed.
~ \WEW ZEALAND

R-3.2

CEILING CAVITY SERVICES

Plumbing leaks identified
No

Services
Plumbing, Header tank

Comments

INTERIOR OVERVIEW

LIMITATION(S) in this section

The assessment of the floors and walls is limited due to furniture and personal items as we cannot move
around personal items and large furniture to fully assess these areas.

Condition
In okay condition for its age.

FINISHES

FLOORS

Type
Carpet, Vinyl

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Comments
No obvious stains. Looks to be undamaged.

WALLS

Type

Drywall/plaster, Wallpaper, Brick masonry feature walls
Condition

In generally good condition for its age.

Comments
Some typical ripples in some places to the wall paper. Some cracking noted mostly in the garage. The rest of
the house is mostly fine.
Moisture damaged plasterboard Skirtings throughout the home

has been plastered and painted have been partially painted. You

over here in front of the shower. can see the old paint colour at
the carpet line.

CEILINGS

Type
Drywall/plaster, Stipple ceiling - Potential to have asbestos, but was not tested or confirmed during this
inspection

Condition
In okay condition for its age.

Comments

It is recommended that the stipple ceiling be tested for the presence of asbestos by a suitably qualified
asbestos surveying specialist. This is because there is some damage to the product that can cause asbestos
fibres to become airborne, which poses a potential health risk if asbestos fibres are present. No obvious
signs of water damage.
Cracking. Some minor deterioration to Fixing holes should be filled.
stipple ceiling in separate toilet.

General cracking to garage
ceiling.

APPLIANCES

Appliance list
Wall oven, Cooktop

Comments
No testing of appliances was performed during this inspection.

SAFETY SYSTEMS

Type
Smoke detectors

Comments

To comply with rental regulations and good practice, it is recommended that photoelectric smoke alarms be
installed. within 3 meters of every bedroom door or every room where someone sleeps. There should also be
at least one on every level or storey of the home. Please use government agency online resources for further
requirements. to ensure you are complying with best practices. No testing was done during this inspection.
Internal access?
Yes

Interior linings condition
In okay condition for its age.

Comments
One garage door electric motorised and working. The other is manually operated and working. Some rotting
noted to two of the garage door reveals. These sections are best replaced.
——
Ne

“ se) WE =»

- ert vaio x
Some cosmetic d Garage door motor casing has
been taped together and may be

broken.

amage and

paint peal to the garage doors.

Marks on reveal where garage
door rubs.

Rot noted to the base of the
garage door reveals. Two
are rotten and the other two
are slightly aged.

JOINERY

DOORS

Condition

In okay condition for its age.

Comments

Items in photos need attention. Otherwise all are working fine.
wl

Ranch slider is stiff and doesn't Door needs easing so it doesn't Door handle is loose. Ease doors)so they don't catch
slide easily. catch the frame. the frame.

No. ee

Adjust catch plate so door This slider door does not operate Adjust catch plate so door Adjust catch plate so door
latches closed. well and needs fixing. latches closed. latches closed.

This slider door is,getting a little | Handle is loose. Glue door knob back on as it Ease door so it latches closed
worn but still operates okay. comes off. easier.

Material
Timber, Aluminium

Glazing
Single

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Comments
Window hardware fixed well in place and windows operating fine. No rotting observed on window sills and
reveals. Some nail fixings have popped on some window sills and reveals. Pick out, re-fix and fill these to
improve them cosmetically.

y |

Example - Popped nail fixings noted in places to some window sills and reveals.

CABINETRY AND COUNTER

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Comments
Items in photos need attention. Otherwise all are working fine.
—— = =

Some minor adjustments needed to kitchen cabinetry. _ Gap fill cosmetic cracking here.

PLUMBING OVERVIEW

LIMITATION(S) in this section

All plumbing assessments are based on what can be visually seen. We cannot confirm the condition beyond
the fittings, under the ground, behind wall linings, ceilings, etc. Furthermore, we are not plumbing specialists;
therefore, we cannot comment on the technical or legal compliance of the plumbing and fixtures on the
property. We will, however, comment on items that look to pose aconcern. If plumbing or drainage is of
concern to you, we recommend engaging a suitably qualified drainage or plumbing expert.

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

WATER SUPPLY

Water source
Public - Council supply

Cold water pressure
High

Hot water pressure
Low

Comments
Type
Hot water cylinder

Condition
In okay condition.

Comments

No leaks,observed. Cylinder is.very dated. Cylinders, particularly older cylinders, can corrode inside and
become compromised when harsh water.is run through them. This is particularly evident when the water is
chlorinated. Often, this cannot be physically sighted off a non-invasive check. Even if a leak is not picked up
at the time of inspection, sudden leaks can occur where corrosion to a fitting or the cylinder suddenly gives
way. Ensure cylinders are periodically inspected for their condition and any leaking.
Condition
In generally good condition.

Comments

Taps were turned on, and no leaks were observed from the waste piping. No leaks observed from water
supply under sinks.

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

Comments
All taps appear to be working and functioning as intended.
SHOWER(S)

Condition
In okay condition for its age.

How many showers?
1

Leaks from shower stall?
Yes

Leaks from shower fittings?
No

Comments
Refer to moisture section regarding shower leak.

TOILET(S)

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

How many toilets?
1

Leaks from toilet?
No

Cistern closing off water supply properly?
Yes

Comments

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

How many baths
1

Leaks from tub?
No

Leaks from fittings?
No

Comments

EXTRACTION FAN(S)

Type

Extractor fan(s)

Condition

In generally good condition for its age.
Comments

Powered on and appears to be operating fine. From what can be physically sighted, the extractors appear to
be ducted externally. It is recommended that an extraction fan be installed to the bathroom.
5
i

ELECTRICAL OVERVIEW

LIMITATION(S) in this section

The overall electrical assessmentis.based on a visual inspection only and will only comment on electrical
elements that are visible and reasonably accessible. We are not an electrical specialist. We cannot comment
on the technical or legal compliance of electrical elements. No testing of electrical elements is undertaken.
However, we will comment on signs of excess heat build-up or anything that visually poses a potential
hazard. If electrical is a concern of yours, then it is strongly recommended that you engage a suitably
qualified electrician.

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

MAINS DELIVERY AND ANCILLARY POWER SOURCES

Type
Subterranean/underground mains connection
Comments

SWITCHBOARD & METER BOX

Condition
In generally good condition.

Breakers
Mix of modern & old

Comments

Old switchboard. Old meter box. Looks to have been professionally installed. No signs of excess heat build
up. Some electrical work has been carried out to the home. Please review relevant documentation where it
applies. Documentation like Certificate of Compliance (COC) and Electrical Safety Certificates (ESC), should
be reviewed to confirm compliance of these works.

LIGHTS

All interior lights work at the time of inspection?
Yes

Comments
HEATING/COOLING/VENTILATION OVERVIEW

LIMITATION(S) in this section

No thorough or electrical testing of the heating or its elements is undertaken during this inspection. We are
not heating or electrical specialists. If you are concerned about these elements, it is recommended that you
seek advice and further testing from a suitably qualified specialist.

Condition
In generally good condition for its age.

HEATING/COOLING/VENTILATION

Type
Wood burner, Electric wall heater(s)

Condition
In generally good condition.

Comments

Looks to have been professionally installed. Powered on fine but was not thoroughly tested for functionality
or electrically during this inspection. Burners in certain areas of Canterbury need to comply with clean air
zone regulations. These regulations generally apply to the main metropolitan areas, townships, and directly
surrounding areas. The burner's documentation should be reviewed and checked against the Environment
Canterbury Register for compliance. Please visit the Environment Canterbury website for more
comprehensive information, including Zone maps, and technical compliance of the burner. The legal
compliance of the burner installation should also.be checked, against council records.

This does not appear to blow hot.
VW Inspected
MM Residential

Maintenance

This comprehensive list covers a wide range of maintenance tasks to help homeowners
keep their residential properties in excellent condition, extend the life of their systems and
components, and avoid costly repairs. Tailor the list to the specific needs and features of
your home as necessary.

Monthly Maintenance:

Test smoke detectors and carbon monoxide alarms: Replace batteries as
needed.

Clean garbage disposal: Prevent odours and maintain functionality.

Inspect plumbing for leaks: Check under sinks and around appliances.
Check for signs of pests: Look for droppings, nests, or entry points.

Inspect and clean range hood filters: Remove grease buildup for fire safety.
Clean and maintain dryer vent: Prevent lint buildup and fire hazards.

Monitor for mould and mildew, Especially in bathrooms, laundry, and exterior
joinery.

Quarterly Maintenance:

Inspect and clean metal joinery tracks: Ensure proper operation.

Check HVAC filters: Maintain efficient heating and cooling systems.

Inspect and clean gutters and downspouts: Remove debris to prevent blockages.
Clean fittings and taps: Remove mineral deposits.

Inspect ceiling cavity and crawl spaces: Look for signs of pests or leaks.

Clean kitchen and bathroom grout and sealant: Prevent mould and mildew.

Trim trees and bushes: Prevent overgrowth and potential damage to any
structures.

Bi-Annual Maintenance:

Check seals and grout in showers and tubs: Prevent water damage.
Inspect windows and doors for proper seals: Address gaps or drafts.
Test garage door opener safety features: Ensure auto-reverse is functioning.

Annual Maintenance:

Lubricate door hinges and locks: Prevent squeaks and extend the products
lifespan

Check for exterior paint damage: Touch up or repaint as needed.

Inspect the roof: Look for damage, leaks, or flashing issues.

Deep clean floors and carpets: Professionally clean or rent equipment.
Clean and inspect chimney: Ensure safe operation if you have a fireplace.
Pressure wash exterior surfaces: Remove dirt, algae, and stains.
Inspect and clean dryer vent: Prevent fire hazards and improve efficiency.
Check the foundation: Look for cracks, settling, or water intrusion.
Inspect and clean oven and stove: Remove built-up grease and debris.
Clean and seal wood decks and fences: Protect against weathering.
Fertilize and aerate the lawn: Promote healthy growth.
VM Inspected
MM. Residential

« Inspect and clean outdoor lighting: Ensure safety and visibility.

e« Flush hot water cylinder: Remove sediment to maintain efficiency.

« Service the HVAC system: Schedule a professional tune-up for heating and cooling
equipment.

« Test and inspect irrigation system: Address any leaks or malfunctions.

« Review insurance policies: Ensure adequate coverage for the property's value and
location.

Seasonal Maintenance:

e Spring: Clean and repair outdoor furniture, prepare garden beds, and check
sprinkler systems.

e Summer: Maintain the lawn clean and seal outdoor wood surfaces.

« Autumn: Rake leaves, clean gutters, and prepare for winter weather.

e Winter: Check insulation and weatherstripping; clear snow and ice from walkways.

As Needed Maintenance:

e« Address plumbing leaks: Promptly repair any leaks to prevent water damage.

« Electrical faults: Get any potential issues checked by an electrical specialist as they
arise, i.e. flickering lights, buzzing noises, signs of excessive heat build-up, etc.

e Pest control: Deal with infestations as they arise.

« Appliance maintenance: Follow the manufacturer's recommendations for your
appliances.

« Inspect and clean septic tanks: If applicable, maintain septic systems as needed.

« Evaluate and maintain swimming pools: Ensureproper chemical balance and
equipment maintenance.

« Inspect and clean ventilation systems: Ensure proper airflow and air quality.
WM Inspected

MM Residential
Borer |
Information

What is Borer?

Borer is a pest capable of causing significant damage to timber in homes and other structures
throughout New Zealand. Small (2-4mm) flight holes on the surface of timbers, doors and furniture
are signs that borer is present in your home. Another obvious sign is fine sawdust piles close to
the holes.

What causes Borer infestation?

Borer are drawn to seasoned or moist untreated timber. They. are commonly found on the
south-facing sides of buildings or in floor timbers that are prone to dampness. Borer prefer soft
or untreated wood and are often found in untreated native timbers in older homes built before the
1960s. Some types of wood, such as macrocarpayare naturally resistant to insect attack, and
kiln-drying radiata pine improves its resistance to borer. Sawn timber is also more susceptible to
borer attack than timber with a smooth surface.

What do you do if youshave a Borer infestation?

Timber infested with borer can be treated, but if the damage is severe, the timber may need to be
reinforced or replaced. The only long-term solution for borer is a residual surface treatment with a
product containing insecticide or preservative. It’s essential that the treatment lasts longer than the
borer’s lifecycle, which can range from 4 to 11 years depending on the species. This treatment can
only be applied to bare timber, so paint or-varnish coatings may need to be removed first.

Airborne treatments like bombs, misting, or fogging will only kill the adult borers and won't stop
the larvae from continuing to damage the timber. Furniture can be treated by fumigation through a
certified pest control company or by injecting insecticide into the flight holes.

If your inspector haS advised they believe borer may be present in the property, it is

recommended that you engage a suitably qualified pest control professional to
confirm this before proceeding with treatment

>
Ms
WM Inspected

MM Residential
Asbestos

Information

What is Asbestos?

Asbestos refers to a group of six naturally occurring minerals composed of thin, needle-like fibres
found in rock and soil. These fibres are so small that they can only be seen under a microscope.

Why was Asbestos used?

Asbestos was widely used in construction until the mid-1980s due to its resistance to heat,
electricity, and corrosion. It is commonly found in materials like sprayed-on fireproofing, sound-
proofing, thermal insulation, decorative coatings, vinyl flooring, cementjproducts, roofing sheets,
and pipe lagging.

Why is Asbestos dangerous?

When asbestos-containing materials (ACMs) are disturbed, they release tiny fibres into the air.
Inhaling these fibres poses serious health risks, as they can become lodged in the lungs and lead
to diseases such as asbestosis, lung cancer, and.mesothelioma.

What should you do if Asbestos is present?

Undisturbed asbestos poses minimal risk, and removal is typically unnecessary. However, if the
material is damaged, it should be addressed promptly. In most cases, asbestos removal must be
carried out by a qualified professional with a WorkSafe licence.

If your inspector’suspects the presence of asbestos in your property, it’s

recommended to engage a suitably qualified professional to confirm this,
especially if any damage is observed.

>
Ms
WM Inspected

MM Residential
Leaky Homes sere

Information

What is a leaky home?

A leaky home is where moisture gets trapped between the exterior cladding and interior wall
frames due to cracks in the exterior cladding and the absence of a cavity system,that is designed
to ventilate any moisture that may get in. This can lead to rotting of the frames, mould growth and
damage to the interior of the home. High-risk homes are typically Mediterranean-styleshomes with
monolithic cladding, commonly built between the late 1980s and mid-2000s.

How can | identify a leaky home?

There are often few visible signs that a building is leaky, but certain features, including its
construction year, can suggest its likelihood of leaking. Major riskfactors include insufficient
ground clearance, cracks in the cladding or joinery, penetrations or openings inthe cladding,
window flashings, and enclosed balconies or cantilevered decks.

What do you do if you think there are leaks/moisture issues?

Leaky buildings can be expensive to repair. A non-invasive moisture test is the first step to locating
any potential moisture ingress.

Your inspector will advise if any high readings are taken and recommend that an
invasive testbe completed by a suitably qualified professional if required.

>
Ms
WM Inspected

MM Residential
Lead-Based esis

Paint Information

What is lead-based paint?

As the name suggests, it is paint containing the heavy metal lead. Lead is added to paint to
accelerate drying, increase durability, maintain a fresh appearance, and resist moisture, which can
Cause corrosion.

Can you identify lead-based paint?

Unfortunately it’s not possible to identify lead-based paints by appearance, however, there are
kits available to test for the presence of lead. Health New Zealand advises that if the property
was built in the 1980s or earlier, it is best to presume that lead-based paint.was.used.

Why is lead-based paint dangerous?

Incorrect removal of lead-based paints can result in lead poisoning due to ingestion of the paint
dust, which has severe health risks.

What can | do if my prope has lead-based paint?

If the paint is in good condition, there is minimal risk. However, deteriorating paint is a health
hazard and needs immediate attention, especially in the interior of the home. There are many
methods to removing lead-based paint, such as wet sanding, dry sanding, scraping, and
waterblasting.

Due to the hazardous natureof airborne lead, it is highly recommended that you

consult a suitably qualified professional to remove any lead-based paint to prevent
it.spreading past the affected area(s) and remaining on the property.

>
Ms
WM Inspected
MM. Residential

TERMS OF SERVICE

1.

How these Terms Apply You are taken to have
exclusively accepted and are immediately
bound, jointly and severally (where there is
more than one purchaser), by these terms of
service when any one of the following occurs:

a. place an order or booking for Services
from us directly or via any third-party
booking system; and/or

b. accept our Services by permitting entry by
us to the nominated Premises to perform
Services; and/or

c. issue a purchase order to us following
receipt of a Quote/Cost Estimate,

and together these terms apply in conjunction
with any specific exclusions or additional terms
specified in any Quote/Cost Estimate.

Our Contract Your acceptance of the
Quote/Cost Estimate and these general terms
together constitute our agreement with you
(this Contract). This Contract governs the
agreement between INSPECTED RESIDENTIAL
LIMITED (COMPANY NUMBER 8466019) (“we”
“us” and “our”) and you, the named client in
the Quote/Cost Estimate, in respect of the
Services.

“Business Days” Any reference to ‘Business
Days’ in these terms means a day on which
banks are ordinarily Open and -excludes a
Saturday, a Sunday or a public holiday. Any
other reference to a ‘day’, shall mean a
calendar day.

“Healthy Homes Standards” are the applicable
standards»set_ out in s13B of the Residential
Tenancies Act 1986 and» the Residential
Tenancies (Healthy Homes Standards)
Regulations 2019.

“Premises” means the residential dwelling or
commercial premises at which Services are to
be performed (as the context requires).

“Report”, means any category of building
inspection report and/or a healthy homes
report (as the context requires).

“You” Means the purchaser buying the
Services as specified in any invoice, order,
Quote/Cost Estimate or any other document. If

Inspected Residential Lim|ted_Terms of Service_July 2023

the purchaser comprises more than one
person, each of those persons’ liability and
agreement is joint and several.

“Us, “Our,” or We” includes any contractor;
employee, assignee, agent, transferees or
approved subcontractor that we use.

Statutory References In these terms, a
reference to a statute or statutory provision
includes a reference to that statute or
statutory provision as modified, consolidated
and/or re-enacted from time to time.and any
subordinate legislation. made under. that
statute or statutory provision)

OUR SERVICES AND OBLIGATIONS

10.

11.

12

13

.

14.

15.

16.

Services Our Services include:
a. Building Inspection Report services; and

b. Healthy Homes Inspection and
Assessment services; and

c. Invasive Testing Services; and
d. Builders Walkthrough Service; and

e. sany other services described in our
described in the Quote/Cost Estimate; and

together these are the Services in these terms
as the context requires.

Scope Variations We will confirm any
additional Services required via a Scope
Variation email and/or an updated Quote/Cost
Estimate.

Subcontractors Either we or our approved
subcontractors will perform the Services for
you.

Performance We will perform our Services
with due skill and care and in a competent
manner.

Licences Where required by law, we hold the
applicable licences and accreditations to
perform the Services.

Updates on Timing We will advise you of any
anticipated delay to provide a Service.

Sufficiency of Time to Perform Services We
will use our reasonable judgment to advise you
of the estimated time to complete the Services
you have requested at the time of booking.
However, such timeframes are indicative only.
WM Inspected
MM. Residential

CUSTOMER OBLIGATIONS

17. Authority for Approval Decisions You must

18

19

20.

nominate a single individual with authority to
give instructions or approval to us, and where
you are working with a third-party (including
but not limited to a property agent, a facilities
or building manager or a key-holder) that you
wish to delegate approval and authority to, you
must provide us with written confirmation of
their contact name, status and basis on which
approval or instructions can be accepted by us.

Consents You must make your own enquiries
relating to the requirement of any consents
required to enable us to access the applicable
Premises to perform the Services including, but
not limited to,

a. building owner consent where you are a
commercial tenant; or

b. landlord consent where you are a
residential tenant; or

c. any other consent from a third party in
connection with the Premises,

d. and you must arrange for all such consents
to be obtained at your sole cost.

Sub Floor and Roof Cavity Access You must
provide unobstructed access to opening access
doors or hatches to crawl Spaces to enable us
to perform sub-floor and roof cavity
inspections.

Premises Preparation You must arrange the
following in advance of us commencing the
Services:

a. Access you must arrange access to the
Premises including, where applicable, gate
access; and

b. Deactivate alarm systems you must
deactivate alarm systems; and

c. Secure dogs you must ensure dogs are
adequately restrained, crated or located in
a closed environment (e.g. a garage,
kennel) while the Services are being
performed; and

ds Remove obstructions this includes the
removal of obstructions to access to the
Premises and applicable opening access

nspected Residential Limited_Terms of Service_July 2023

doors for sub-floor and roof cavities and at
the exterior for access to roof.

BUILDING INSPECTION REPORT SERVICES

21.

22.

23.

Report Compliance Written building
inspection reports are carried out in
accordance with NZS Standard 4306:2005
Residential Property Inspection (published by
Standards New Zealand) on an “exceptions. or
information” basis and are not a statement
that a property complies with the
requirements of any statute, act, regulation or
bylaw.

General Reliance Building inspection reports
are intended to be relied upon as a general
guide to: you. They represent the overall
condition of the Premises, and a Report does
not constitute a warranty or guarantee of the
current or future performance or fitness for
purpose of the building, structure, systems or
component parts comprising the Premises. To
avoid doubt, such reports do not include any
statements or confirmations »as to the
following:

a. the fitness for purpose or workmanship
quality of any system, including but not
limited to, electrical, air conditioning,
heating, plumbing, septic tank, solar,
alarm, fire protection, audio visual or any
other system (Systems); and/or

b. the quality of the design of such Systems;
and/or

c. the quality or appropriateness of the
components or placement or location of
such Systems.

Visual Inspections A Report is assessed on the
basis of a visual and non-invasive inspection
only on specific areas of the Premises
including, but not limited to, the following:

a. Exterior roof; and
b. Foundation and subfloor; and
c. Accessory units and buildings; and

d. Site improvements; and Roof space/ceiling
cavity; and

e. Exterior wall cladding and joinery; and

f. General Interior; and
WM Inspected
MM. Residential

Plumbing system; and
Electrical system; and
i. Landscaping/hardscaping; and
j. Pest and potential hazards.

24. Multi-Unit Premises Building inspection
reports on multi-unit Premises exclude items
listed at sub-clauses (a) to (e) inclusive above
except for accessible parts of immediate
exterior of the unit to be inspected.

25.Sample Components We may report on a
sample set of components only and are not an
exhaustive report on all building components.

26. Floor Level Readings All readings taken for the
purposes of a Report are indicative only and
are not warranted to be a true floor level of the
Premises.

27. Moisture Readings. We shall use our
reasonable industry knowledge to assess
moisture levels at the Premises. All and any
moisture testing performed as part of the
Services shall be non-invasive and we do not
warrant that moisture ingress is not present at
the Premises. Where we _ identify and
recommend that invasive moisture testing is
required, this is subject to an additional scope
of services.

28. Limited Inspections Where we cannot access
an area of your Premises, we shall exclude such
area(s) from our final Report.

29. Building Inspection Report Exclusions A
Report shall exclude inspection or reporting on
the following (this list is not exhaustive, and
any additional exclusions shall be stated in the
building inspection report):

a. Destructive testing; and

b. Invasive testing (for example: wall
opening); and

c. Weathertightness; and
d. Excavation; and

e. Roof areas where access exceeds use of a
316m ladder; and

f. Testing under furniture or appliances; and

g- Disassembly of equipment or appliances;
and

Inspected Residential Lim\ited_Terms of Service_July 2023

h. Asbestos testing; and

i. Live borer, termites or other infestation;
and

j- Concealed, submerged, buried,
camouflaged, embedded or otherwise
inaccessible components or, areas
(including but not limited to plumbing,
drainage, septic/sewerage, private water,
heating, air conditioning, ducting, framing,
ventilation, insulation, wiring — or
reticulated services); and

k. commentary,<«feporting or analysis of
minor defects or maintenance
requirements (including wear and tear);
and

1. common areas (including at cross-lease
Premises, unit titles, multi-unit dwellings);
and

m. sheds and outhouses; and
n. solar and PV.systems; and

o. building code » compliance or other
regulatory compliance (including local or
territorial consent or resource consents);
and

p. seismic activity; and

q. any other matter we elect to limit in the
Report.

30. Specialist Recommendations We reserve all
rights to include recommendations in a Report
for specialist advice or assessments to be
performed in respect of matters noted for
concern. The contents of our Report are not
reliant on such additional independent advice,
and you undertake such additional services at

your own cost and discretion.

INTRUSIVE TESTING SERVICES

31. Intrusive Testing Where we recommend
intrusive testing to identify locations of water
ingress or water leakage and you engage us to
perform this service, the following shall apply:

a. You shall be required to confirm your
consent on behalf of you and all other
homeowners to remove core samples of
framing to perform the testing; and
WM Inspected
MM. Residential

b. our intrusive testing shall not be relied
upon as a_weathertightness report,
assessment or opinion in any way.

HEALTHY HOMES REPORT SERVICES

32.

33.

34.

Report Compliance Healthy homes inspection
Reports are prepared in accordance with the
Healthy Homes Standards.

Visual Inspection Healthy homes inspections
are based on visual inspections only and are
limited to the nominated aspects of the
Premises as prescribed by the Healthy Homes
Standards, these being:

a. Heating; and

b. Insulation; and

c. Ventilation; and

d. Moisture Ingress and drainage; and
e. Draught stopping.

Healthy Homes Report Exclusions A healthy
homes inspection is limited to the five aspects
listed above and does not comment or report
on the following (this list is not exhaustive, and
any additional exclusions shall be stated in the
healthy homes Report):

a. other identifiable issues that.may affect
wellbeing or health of occupants of
residential tenancy Premises.; and

b. probe or destructive testing; and
c. Testing under furniture or appliances; and

d. Disassembly of equipment or appliances;
and

e. any other matter we elect to limit in the
Report.

USE OF REPORTS

35.

36.

Reliance The information and contents of any
Report is confidential and is for your exclusive
use and that of any nominated additional
addressee and is valid as at the date of issue
only. We disclaim all responsibility and accept
no liability for use of a Report by any party
other than you or a specified addressee agreed
as at the date of the Cost Estimate/Quote or as
later agreed by us in writing.

Report-Addressee You are prohibited from
altering the addressee of a Report and must

Inspected Residential Lim|ted_ Terms of Service_July 2023

37.

obtain our express consent to re-issue any
Report to alternative or additional addressee.
This may be subject to an additional fee.

No Future Warranty A Report provides our
opinion as at the date of the applicable
inspection. Any Report or assessment provided
in connection with the Services is not a
warranty against any issues, defects or
problems which may have not been identified
via a visual inspection or that may develop
after the date of performance of the Services

BUILDER’S WALKTRHOUGH SERVICE

38.

39.

No Report Basis Our ‘builder’s walkthrough
service’ is an accompanied tour of a property
nominated by the Client. Any observations of
works or remedial actions made by us or our
Personnel are supplied on an ‘as is’ basis via a
visUahinspection and is supplied on a ‘no report
basis’. You accept and acknowledge that we or
our Personnel shall not supply any written
report in connection with this category of
service. To avoid doubt, this service is not a
Building Inspection Report Service and shall
notbe supplied to the level of detail to meet
the NZS Standard 4306:2005 Residential
Property Inspection (published by Standards
New Zealand).

No Reliance We accept no responsibility for
your reliance or that of any third-party in
respect of our verbal comments and
observations supplied during a ‘builder’s
walkthrough’ service.

PAYMENTS AND INVOICING

40.

41.

42.

Amounts Owing Payable on Due Date All
amounts specified in an invoice will require
payment on the due date specified in the
invoice (Amounts Owing).

Invoice Payable Prior to Report Release All
amounts specified in your invoice are payable
in advance of release of a Report unless
expressly agreed otherwise by us in writing.

Third Party Card Handling Fees We reserve the
right to on-charge any third-party transaction
fees associated with online card payment to
your invoice or online payments. These may be
subject to change without notice and the
applicable % shall be published on our website
WM Inspected
MM. Residential

or invoices. This shall be current as at the date
of the applicable booking.

43. No Set Off or Deduction Payment of Amounts
Owing Amounts Owing which are due and
payable must be made without set-off or
deduction of any kind.

44.|f You Dispute the Amount Owing If you
receive an invoice and you consider you owe us
a lesser amount than the sum stated as the
Amount Owing, you must notify us within five
(5) Business Days of receiving our invoice.

45. Duty to Pay Undisputed Amounts Owing You
acknowledge and agree that you will not be
entitled to withhold payment in respect of any
undisputed Amount Owing.

46. Overdue Amounts Owing If you do not pay an
Amount Owing by the Due Date or any later
date we have agreed in writing, this becomes
an Overdue Amount Owing. After a period of 5
(five) Business Days, we shall have the right to
apply late payment interest at a rate of 2.5%.
This shall be calculated daily and compound
monthly at that rate if we elect to do this. This
applies before and after any judgment, (if
applicable).

47. Debt Collection or Recovery Costs if an
Overdue Amount Owing remains unpaid for 14
(fourteen) Business Days of more, we reserve
our rights to engage the services of a debt
collection agency or solicitor, to take
proceedings to recover the Overdue Amount
Owing. You willbe liable for the costs incurred
by us in the collection of any unpaid amounts
including but not limited to legal.costs,,debt
collection fees and internal administration
fees.

48. Administration Fees In the event we are
obliged to perform any additional actions to
recover any monies owed by you, we reserve
the right to apply reasonable administrative
fees for phone calls, texts, emails and in-person
visits to follow up and recover any Overdue
Amount Owing, in addition to any costs or
expenses stated in any clauses above.

VARIATIONS

49. Variations to Price We reserve the right to
issue a Variation Order to change the price to
complete the Services where an extension to

Inspected Residential Limited _ Terms of Service_July 2023

the Premises area is requested that extends
the number of dwellings at the Premises on
which we have provided our Quote/Cost
Estimate.

CANCELLATION AND MISSED APPOINTMENT
FEES

50. Missed Appointment Fees Where we attend
your Premises on the agreed date and time;
and you fail to make the necessary
arrangements or meet your» Customer
Obligations to enable us to perform our
Services, the Missed. Appointment). Fee
published on our Cost Estimate/Quote issued
to you shall be invoiced to you.

51. Cancellation by You Where you request a
cancellation of a.Service, you must provide us
with no less than forty-eight (48) hours’ notice.
Where such notice isnot supplied, we reserve
the right to deduct an amount equivalent to
the Missed Appointment Fee published on our
Cost Estimate/Quote issued to you and shall
refund the balance.to you.

52. Cancellation by Us Without prejudice to our
other,remedies at law, we reserve our rights to
terminate this Contract (which includes any
part the Services that remain unfulfilled) and
shall not be liable to you for any delay, loss or
damage suffered by you due to us exercising

our rights under this clause, where:

a. Inabilityto Access Premises we are denied
access to or are unable to access the
Premises to carry out the Services for
whatever reason and we_ cannot
reschedule to access at a later date; and

b. Health and safety where we assess that
the means of access to the Premises or the
whole or part of the Premises is unsafe and
would breach the relevant safety
requirements under applicable health and
safety legislation, and such _ safety
concerns or issues cannot or will not be
remedied by you.

c. No consent Where we cannot obtain
consent from you to perform invasive
testing (where applicable).

53. Payment of a Missed Appointment Fee Where
this clause is relied upon, we reserve the right
to do one of the following:
WM Inspected
MM. Residential

a. If no re-booking is made deduct an
amount equivalent to the Missed
Appointment Fee published on our Cost
Estimate/Quote issued to you from your
fee and shall refund the balance of any
pre-payment to you if the service is not re-
booked at a later date.; or

b. If you re-book your appointment to issue
an invoice to you for our published Missed
Appointment Fee which shall become
immediately due and payable prior to our
attendance at your _ re-scheduled
appointment.

LIMITATION OF OUR LIABILITY

54.

55.

56.

57.

Limit of Liability Our total aggregate liability to
you arising out of or in connection with the
Services whether in contract, any indemnity,
tort (including negligence) by statute or
otherwise at law or in equity is limited to an
amount equivalent to the value of the
applicable Services performed under these
terms.

Exclusion of Our Liability To the fullest extent
permitted by law, and subject to our
obligations under any applicable law that
imposes guarantees on us, we exclude all
liability to you for any indirect claims,
expenses, losses, damages and costs (including
any incidental, special and/or consequential
damages or loss of profits, loss of anticipated
savings or loss of expenses suffered or incurred
by you resulting (either directly or indirectly) in
connection with the Services.

When Limitations of Liability Cannot Apply
These clauses do not limit our liability to the
extent thatit.cannot be limited at law and/or
arises out of or in connection with any wilful
default, fraud or criminal conduct by us.

Force Majeure We shall not be liable for any
delay or failure to perform the Services due to
a force majeure event. For the purposes of
these terms, “force majeure” means an event
or circumstance which leads to a default of
either party under this Contract due to any act
of God, war, terrorism, strike, lock-out,
industrial action, fire, flood, storm, port closure
or border closure plus any national or global
pandemic effects, including, for the avoidance
of doubt, any default due to any

Inspected Residential Limited _ Terms of Service_July 2023

implementation of any regulation, directive,
rule or measure by any government, state or
other authority under the governing law of this
Contract.

DISPUTE

58.

59.

Details of the Dispute must be Supplied If you
or we consider that/a dispute has arisen in
relation to any matter governed by this
Contract, you must give us written notice
outlining the basis of the dispute. within ten
(10) Business Days of the date of the Report.

Remedy Where we agree airemedy is available,
your remediesare limited to a re-performance
of the Services or a refund of the amounts
payable (at our discretion).

PRIVACY

60,

You authorise us and our agents to collect, use,
retain and disclose “personal information” (as
defined in Part 1, section 7of the Privacy Act
2020) about you and your personnel that you
or they provide to us for the following
purposes:

a. assessing creditworthiness and exercising
our. rights and/or performing our
obligations under this Contract; and/or

b. direct marketing purposes (including by
email and other electronic means), unless
you notify us that you do not wish to
receive direct marketing from us; and/or

c. using the services of credit reporting and
debt collection agencies and you consent
to us disclosing personal information
(including any information about default
and repayment; and/or

d. history) toa credit reporter, who may hold
that information and use it to provide its
credit reporting services; and/or

e. registering any Security Interest under this
Contract; and/or

f. the use or transfer of personal information
to a Related Company (as such term is
defined by Companies Act 1993) in
connection with the performance of our
obligations or exercise of our rights under
this Contract.
M™ Inspected
M. Residential

61. The clause above is authority and consent from
you in accordance with sections in Part 3, Part
7, subpart 1 and all other relevant sections in
the Privacy Act 2020.

62. You (if you are an individual) have the right
under sections in Part 4, subpart 1 and Part 4,
subpart 2 of the Privacy Act 2020 to access, and
request correction of, any of your personal
information held by us and if you provide any
personal information about a third party
(including your Personnel) to us, you confirm
that you are authorised to do so by the relevant
individual and you have informed the relevant
individual that they have the right to contact us
to access and, if applicable, request correction
of any personal information that we hold about
them.

GENERAL

63. Governing Law This Contract shall be governed
by the laws of New Zealand and the parties
irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction
of the courts of New Zealand.

64. Severability If and to the extent any provision
or part of a provision is_ illegal or
unenforceable, such provision or part of a
provision will be severed from this Contract
and will not affect the continued-operation of
the remaining provisions of this Contract.

65. Entire Agreement This Contract sets out the
entire agreement between the parties.

66. Electronic Acceptance The parties agree that
any legal requirement may be met by using
electronic means in accordance with the
Contract and Commercial Law Act 2017; In this
clause.the term “legal requirement” has the
meaning given to ityby section 219(2) of the
Contract and Commercial Law Act 2017.

END OF TERMS

Inspected Residential Limited_Terms of Service_July 2023
